---
layout: post
date: 2006-02-26 
author: bsag 
title: "Tracks 1.04 is here (at last!)" 
categories: [news] 
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

Tracks 1.04 is ready for "download":http://rousette.org.uk/projects/downloads/31/tracks-104. I know that it's been a long time coming, but I hope it's worth it. Check the changelog in the distribution for details, but the major new features are as follows:

* Proper multi-user abilities, added mainly by Nicholas Lee. User preferences are now stored in the database rather than the settings.yml file, so each user can have their own preferences.
* Much improved AJAX features, so that adding, editing, deleting and checking off next action is very speedy because you don't have to wait for the page to refresh -- (nearly) instant gratification!
* Validation errors are much more gracefully handled.
* Many more options for the RSS and text feeds, added by Luke Melia. These are accessed via the feed image link in the main navigation.
* You can add notes to projects to hold associated information. 

There are a lot more changes which are less obvious but will provide a much cleaner and more stable base for future changes. I've got many more features planned, but I need a short break before I start on Tracks 1.05! Have fun, and as usual, let me know what you think.

I'd also like to take this opportunity to thank all of those who have contributed patches, tested things, suggested features or reported bugs: you've all made Tracks a lot better than it would have been without your input.

*Update 1/3/2006*: I've fixed the bugs that people reported with 1.04 and also updated the installation document to make the process a bit clearer and fix a couple of errors. The tags version is updated, and I've also uploaded a new zipped version too, available at the same url as the old one. 
