---
layout: post
title: "Tracks 2.1 released"
date: 2012-04-19 11:00
comments: true
categories: [news]
author: lrbalt
sharing: true
footer: true
---
Hi all,

It is finally done! You can now [download][1] Tracks version 2.1 from github.
We did our best to test this new version well, but any problems you may have
can be posted to [Assembla][2]. Improvements for translations are welcome
too.

Do not forget to migrate your database if you are coming from 2.0 or from
2.1RC1. And since we have migrated to bundler for managing dependencies, run
@bundle install@ (instead of @rake gems:install@). If you use passenger and
the gems will not load using bundler, set the @BUNDLER_PATH@ in
@.bundler/config@. See the installation and upgrade manual for more details.

We have seen a lot of new contributions from several contributers: Ignacio
Ihuerta, Christof Spies, Stefan Richter, Mickey Reiss, Demian Gemperli, Matt
Rogers, Jan Stępień, Antonin Blanc, Christian Frank, Sebastian Fischmeister,
Andreas Brandl, Craig Maloney, Pavel Zupa, Tim Madden, Jaime Hernandez,
Damian Shalev. Also we have two new committing developers (Hi Matt Rogers
and Stefan Richter) to keep development of Tracks going.

Thanks to all of you!!

The current release is based on rails 2.3 and only supports ruby 1.8.7. This
infrastructure is getting outdated. For release 2.2 we will upgrade this to
rails 3 and support ruby 1.8.7 and ruby 1.9.3.

This release brings a lot of new goodies:

New and changed features:

1. Redesign of the completed todos: a new overview page. Also all context
and  project pages have a link to their completed actions
2. New locales (es by Ignacio Ihuerta, fr by Antonin Blanc, cz by Pavel Zupa
and he by Damian Shalev) and updated locales (de, nl)
3. You can star an action right from the form for adding a new action
4. Redesign of preferences page
5. You can now mark an action complete from the tickler
6. Project names can now contain comma (',') in it name
7. Context view now shows hidden and pending actions
8. Mobile improvements (we now require some javascript support on the
mobile)
9. Two extra defer periods in the context menu of an action
10.There is a review page where you can see stalled or neglected projects.
There is a reviewed button on the project edit page to mark a project
reviewed.
11.You need to change your password: migrated to better BCrypt hash algoritm
for storing passwords

New features (technical)

1. There are two example ruby scripts in /doc to use the REST API to add a
todo or a project template with todos from the command line
2. The tag page can now select actions from mulitple tags using AND and OR.
There is no gui for this. Syntax is /todos/tag/tagA,tagB?and=tagC to select
all todos with (tagA or tagB) AND tagC

Under the hood:

1. Upgraded rails to 2.3.12, jquery to 1.7.1 and jquery-ui to 1.8.17
2. Fixed several issues with the REST API
3. Upgraded the act_as_statemachine plugin. This change requires a
migration. See note above!
4. Migated to bundler for gem dependencies
5. Migrated to cucumber and capybara for integration testing
6. Development mode shows a work-in-progress banner on top of the screen

[1]: https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/zipball/v2.1
[2]: www.assembla.com/spaces/tracks-tickets/


