---
layout: post
title: "Tracks 2.4.0 released"
date: 2019-11-05 20:11
comments: true
categories: [news]
sharing: true
footer: true
---
**Please note: The tags migration is failing on some databases. You can track
the issue in [Github](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/issues/2295). Make sure
to test the upgrade before upgrading production!**

Tracks 2.4.0 has finally been released! This new version brings
Charts.js-based stats and smaller changes to the UI along with many
bug fixes and some major under-the-hood upgrades and refactors.

Tracks is now running on Rails 5.2. Ruby versions below 2.4 are no
longer supported, but this release of Tracks is fully tested on Ruby
2.4 and 2.5.

Other changes:
* All tags now belong to a user. Existing tags are migrated to users
  based on the taggings and duplicated as necessary.
* All REST APIs now also accept user token as password.
* A Docker environment is used unless the .skip-docker file exists.
* Numerous bug fixes

You can download the release [here](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/archive/v2.4.0.zip).
Upgrade instructions can be found [in the manual](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/blob/v2.4.0/doc/upgrading.md).

The project is again worked on by multiple contributors, and it is
expected to stay more active than in the last couple of years.

Thanks to the contributors of this version:

**Maintainers:**
* Matt Rogers,
* Jyri-Petteri "ZeiP" Paloposki,
* Dan Rice,
* Eric Moon and
* Reinier Balt

**Contributors:**
* Carsten Otto,
* Steven R. Baker,
* Matteo Giaccone,
* Heiner Wohner,
* Ryan Truran,
* Robin Dickson,
* Jan-Yves Ruzicka,
* Jaime Martín Jiménez, and
* Mateusz Konieczny

We gladly welcome any contributions and help you can offer. [Get started!](/contribute)
