---
layout: post
title: "Tracks 2.5.1 released"
date: 2020-09-24 13:09
comments: true
categories: [news]
sharing: true
footer: true
---

Tracks 2.5.1 includes bug fixes for a couple of long-standing UI issues and
some dependency upgrades. See also the release notes for 2.5.0 for major
changes since 2.4.

Ruby versions below 2.5 are not supported. This release of Tracks is tested
on Ruby versions 2.5, 2.6 and 2.7.

### Security issue disclosure

Joe Thorpe from Secarma disclosed an XSS issue that was inadvertently
fixed in 2.5.0 by another bug fix. Tracks previously rendered XSS content
in the user's own data. The content is only shown to the user themself,
which mitigates the vulnerability in the normal use case where a single
user account is only used by one person. The CVSS rating for self-XSS is
debatable and thus is not published for this issue.

I want to thank Joe for reporting the issue and for the insightful discussion
regarding the issue. Thanks to the disclosure there is now also a written
security policy for the project.

### Bug fixes

* Editing a due date in the calendar view fixed
* Adding actions in the context view fixed
* Fixed the recurring todo UI

You can download the release [here](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/archive/v2.5.1.zip).
Upgrade instructions can be found [in the manual](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/blob/v2.5.1/doc/upgrading.md).

Thanks to the contributors of this version:

**Maintainer:**
* Jyri-Petteri "ZeiP" Paloposki

**Contributors:**
* Dan Rice and
* Greg Sutcliffe

We gladly welcome any contributions and help you can offer. [Get started!](/contribute)
