---
layout: post
date: 2009-02-15 
author: bsag 
title: "Tracks 1.7RC2" 
categories: [downloads] 
comments: true
sharing: true
footer: true
---

Version: 1.7RC2

[Git URL](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/tree/1.7_branch)

Reinier Balt has already announced the release of Tracks 1.7RC2, but I've finally (and belatedly!) found time to upload the zipped file and update the manual.

Reinier's release notes:

We have many improvements based on the feedback on RC1. We felt we should first do a RC2 to make sure all improvements did not introduce new regressions. Please help out to test this second pre-release to find any bugs before we release 1.7 in a few weeks

What was new in RC1:

* The included Rails version is updated to 2.2.2
* Tracks now supports recurring/repeating todos
* Cleanup of feed page and add feed for starred actions
* Initial importer of yaml files (still very EXPERIMENTAL; please send feedback on whether to include this; make backups while testing it)
* New interface to import an email / sms messages into Tracks (needs an email server on the same server as Tracks)
* New buttons to quickly defer an action 1 or 7 days
* Calendar view to review upcoming due actions, includes iCal feed to use in your calendar app (tested with Google Calendar, Evolution, Outlook 2007)
* You can now sort projects on number of active todos
* Support for OpenSearch. This means you can add a Tracks as a search provider in your webbrowser (tested on FF3 and IE7)
* Bugfixes, including fixing OpenID

New in RC2:

* We now allow users again to stay logged in on two devices at the same time
* Move site specific configuration out of environment.rb into site.yml for easier updating
* Bugfixes, including the upgrade of has_many_polymorphs which will fix the problem of not being able to migrate from 1.6 because of non-existing recurring_todos table.

There are changes to the database (even between RC1 and RC2), and changes to the way you configure Tracks, so please migrate your database and redo your Tracks configuration. 

In Tracks 1.7RC2 the site specific configuration is moved from environment.rb into the new site.yml. This makes updating environment.rb much easier without you needing to set your site specific settings after each update. After you install/upgrade Tracks 1.7RC2 there will be no environment.rb.tmpl anymore. You will find an environment.rb which you can leave untouched. Just fill in your settings from your old environment.rb in the new site.yml. If you have made any other customizations to environment.rb in the past, you can put them in your own configuration file (for example, in my-config.rb) in config/initializers. Please let us know it you think they should be in site.yml.tmpl. 

**WARNING: if you update to RC2 using git, your environment.rb will be overwritten. SO PLEASE MAKE BACKUPS**

This release of 1.7 will include enhancements made by a lot new contributers (Jakub, Hans, Piotr, MHarris, Piglop, Farzy, Vitaliel, McVeat and Simon; I hope I didn't forget anyone...). Thank you all for helping Tracks getting better every release. As ever particular thanks to Luke (for updating Tracks to 2.2.2) and to Eric Allen for lots of work on a many fronts, including the site.yml improvements! 
