---
layout: post
title: "Tracks 2.2 released"
date: 2013-02-18 12:00
comments: true
categories: [downloads]
sharing: true
footer: true
author: lrbalt
---
Hi all,

Tracks 2.2 is being released today with a variety of new features and bugfixes! You can download the release [here](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/archive/v2.2.zip). Upgrade instructions can be found [in the manual](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/blob/v{{site.version}}/doc/upgrading.textile)

New in this release:
* Added caching to various parts of Tracks to speed things up
* Better support for running Tracks with PostgreSQL
* Improvements to the mobile interface.
* Drag and drop should work on tablets
* Upgrade to the latest stable version of Rails. This brings in some changes like new command to start Tracks and precompiling assets. Take a look at the [installation](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/blob/v{{site.version}}/doc/installation.textile) or [upgrade manual](https://github.com/TracksApp/tracks/blob/v{{site.version}}/doc/upgrading.textile) for details.
* Tracks now includes support for Ruby 1.8.7 and Ruby 1.9. The next version of Tracks will only support Ruby 1.9. Support for
older versions of Ruby will then be dropped.
* Tons of bugfixes, updated locales and other improvements

Changed in this release:
* The administrator's email is no longer in the preferences and has been moved into site.yml

Removed in this release:
* Support for OpenID, CAS, and LDAP login. Support for these different login types will be added back in a future release.
* Support for the SOAP API. The REST API should be used instead. This may impact your scripts or mobile apps that
integrate with Tracks using SOAP XML API.

A lot of contributrions by various people from our community have found their way into this release. This release also sees the addition of a new member to the Tracks team. Please welcome Dan Rice as a new committer! Dan has been instrumental in improving our support for PostgreSQL and making a ton of other small improvements to the Tracks codebase for this release.

Enjoy!
